Ruby agent: gRPC instrumentation (#8784)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/instrumented-gems/grpc-instrumentation.mdx

---
title: gRPC instrumentation
tags:
  - Agents
  - Ruby agent

>   - Instrumented gems

Author: None of the other .mdx files in the directory have anything beyond this list of 3, so I wanted the new .mdx file to match.

metaDescription: The New Relic Ruby agent automatically instruments gRPC clients and servers.
---

## Overview

> The [New Relic Ruby agent](/docs/agents/ruby-agent/getting-started/new-relic-ruby) automatically instruments [gRPC](https://grpc.io/) clients and servers that use the [grpc](https://rubygems.org/gems/grpc) gem (gem version 1.0.0 or higher). All communication types - unary, bidirectional, client-streaming, and server-streaming - are supported.

Author: committed, thank you!

<Callout variant="important">
  gRPC instrumentation requires Ruby agent version 8.10.0 or higher.
</Callout>

## Configuration (All settings are optional)

> The instrumentation of gRPC clients and servers can be configured separately. By default, both instrumentations are set to `auto`, which is short for "automatic". The agent's automatic behavior for each is to enable the instrumentation by attempting to leverage Ruby module prepend behavior at first and falling back on Ruby method chaining behavior if known compatibility issues are encountered. Optionally, the instrumentation setting can be set to a value of `disabled` to disable the instrumentation, `prepend` for forced module prepend behavior, or `chain` for forced method chaining behavior.

Author: suggestion committed, thank you

<Callout variant="tip">
  By default, the New Relic Ruby agent has instrumentation for both gRPC clients and servers set to `auto`.

  By modifying the New Relic config file or by setting environment variables, the agent's gRPC instrumentation behavior can be altered with one of the following values:

  - **auto:** the default, enabled via automatic Ruby method behavior selection
  - **disabled:** instrumentation disabled
  - **prepend:** force the use of Ruby method prepending
  - **chain:** force the use of Ruby method chaining

  **gRPC client**
  - config file parameter: `instrumentation.grpc_client`
  - environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_INSTRUMENTATION_GRPC_CLIENT`

  **gRPC server**
  - config file parameter: `instrumentation.grpc_server`
  - environment variable: `NEW_RELIC_INSTRUMENTATION_GRPC_SERVER`

>   Examples:

Author: committed 8885ad3

  To disable gRPC server instrumentation via the config file:

  ```
  # newrelic.yml
  instrumentation.grpc_server: disabled
  ```

  To disable the gRPC client instrumentation via an environment variable:

  ```
  export NEW_RELIC_INSTRUMENTATION_GRPC_CLIENT=disabled
  ```
</Callout>

## Verification

Once the New Relic Ruby agent starts, it will detect the presence of the `grpc` gem having been loaded and then attempt to apply gRPC instrumentation. When successful at applying this instrumentation for the gRPC client and server components, the agent will write the following lines to its log file (`log/newrelic_agent.log` by default):

```
INFO : Installing New Relic supported gRPC_Client instrumentation using Prepend
INFO : Installing New Relic supported gRPC_Server instrumentation using Prepend
```

## Usage

As long as the instrumentation is working properly (see "Verification" above to confirm this), all instrumentation performed by the New Relic Ruby agent should be fully automatic and not require any modifications whatsoever to any of your existing gRPC client and/or server code.

> The New Relic Ruby agent's gRPC instrumentation can be used for New Relic Distributed Tracing in conjunction with any other New Relic agent that supports gRPC. gRPC requests can be sent from a Ruby-based client to a server based on another language, and a Ruby-based server can field requests coming from a client based on another language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The New Relic Ruby agent's gRPC instrumentation includes distributed tracing headers in spans, which allows gRPC client and server calls to be connected to any other service that supports W3C distributed tracing. gRPC requests can be sent from a Ruby-based client to a server based on another language, and a Ruby-based server can field requests coming from a client based on another language.
```

Author: committed, thanks

<Callout variant="important">
  gRPC client requests will not be reported to New Relic unless they are spawned when an existing New Relic transaction is present. Typically this means that a Rails controller method or background job process is active and responsible for the invocation of the gRPC client request. The request will then roll up under that outer wrapper's transaction in the New Relic web UI.

>   gRPC server request handlings will always generate a new New Relic transaction and will not require nor roll-up to any pre-existing New Relic transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  gRPC server requests will always generate a new New Relic transaction and will not require nor roll-up to any pre-existing New Relic transaction.
```

Author: "handlings" was a deliberate term to incorporate streaming (one long running open connection with multiple payloads across what from an HTTP perspective might be a single "request"), but this approach doesn't require such a lengthy footnote, merging.

</Callout>

## Viewing Data

To view the collected gRPC data in the New Relic web UI...

### Client Instances

On the [Summary page](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page), gRPC client requests will appear as Web transactions and contribute data to the "Web transactions time", "Throughput", and "Error rate" charts.

On the [Distributed tracing page](/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/distributed-tracing-ruby-agent/), select (click on) a trace group, then click on the trace group name again, then click on "Expand all" and then select (click on) a specific nested client trace. With a specific client trace selected, select the Attributes tab on the right. The `grpc_status`, `grpc_type`, `http.method`, and `http.url` attributes should all appear. In the event of a failed client request (which will have a `grpc_status` value other than `0`), an additional `grpc_message` attribute will appear with the gRPC status message.

> If the gRPC client requests are being sent to a gRPC server with New Relic gRPC instrumentation (based on Ruby or another language), then the Distributed tracing trace map should display both the client and server applications and report on how many distinct call types were performed between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the gRPC client requests are being sent to a gRPC server with New Relic gRPC instrumentation (based on Ruby or another language), then the distributed tracing trace map should display both the client and server applications and report on how many distinct call types were performed between them.
```

Author: committed, thank you

In the event of a gRPC-based Ruby exception, information about the exception will appear on the Events > Errors page.

### Server Instances

On the [Summary page](/docs/apm/applications-menu/monitoring/apm-overview-page), gRPC client requests will appear as Web transactions and contribute data to the "Web transactions time", "Throughput", and "Error rate" charts.

On the [Distributed tracing page](/docs/apm/agents/ruby-agent/configuration/distributed-tracing-ruby-agent/), select (click on) a client trace group, and then click on the trace group name again. Then from the resulting page's list, click on an individual gRPC server trace and select (click on) the Attributes tab on the right. The `request.grpc_type`, `request.method`, and `request.uri` attributes should all appear.

> If the gRPC server handled requests originated from a gRPC client with New Relic gRPC instrumentation (based on Ruby or another language), then the Distributed tracing trace map should display both the client and server applications and report on how many distinct call types were performed between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the gRPC server handled requests originated from a gRPC client with New Relic gRPC instrumentation (based on Ruby or another language), then the distributed tracing trace map should display both the client and server applications and report on how many distinct call types were performed between them.
```

Author: committed, thank you
